hi I'm Sarah from the good food magazine
and I'm going to show you how to make a
really nice alternative to mold wine I
love mulled wine but you know you get
the same every year so I wanted to come
up with something a bit different with
some pear flavors in it so has anyone
tried pear cider no no it's a bit
sweeter than apples that you've tried it
like it I do actually yeah yeah oh
there's lots of different varieties out
there so I take sort of try a few and
see which one you like some are sweeter
than others you could make this recipe
just with normal apple cider if you want
by just sort is a bit of a nice twist
quite nice and autumnal good for
Christmas so yeah start with some pear
cider and into my pan I've done this in
a really big quantity so I'm scaling it
down a bit so I'm just going in with
about five hundred mils of the pear
cider doesn't matter what kind or not
really no I think I've got something a
bit drier just because I'm going to put
some juice in it as well so I don't want
it too sweet so if i don't know if it's
got a name you know like some apple
cider says dry or medium or sweet go for
something dryer i think if you've got
your favorite and and then about the
same quantity I've got cloudy pear juice
again if you can't find it you could use
cloudy apple juice I just wanted to keep
my flavors the same so if you want to do
cider do Apple maybe and again about
five hundred mils cuz anyone had a
mulled wine yet this year ya know I've
had about five I think I've done every
Christmas market the last week oh well
this might be your new thing then you
won't miss the mulled wine now I'm going
with cranberry juice again fight about
five hundred mils same just gives a
really nice blush pink color and then
I've got some fresh cranberries like
this is more just for looks really so if
you want to use dried or you could just
leave them out what some of those in
and then the thing that makes it a bit
more mulled wine you've got a couple of
cinnamon sticks so pop those in and some
vanilla pods does anyone use vanilla
fresh vanilla pods when they're baking
would do they tend to use the extract
probably is the extra well I've used
fresh forms yeah well they're nice cuz
I'm you get all the seeds you get a bit
of a speckle so i'm just literally
scoring it right down the middle and
opening it out so that will let the
seeds come out and plus if you made this
all the seeds come out you can take out
the vanilla pod to dry them off and then
put them in a jar of sugar or something
because they're quite expensive but that
way you can flavor your sugar and get a
few uses out of them so into the pot
like that and it adds a sweetness so I
this is I think it's a nice twist on
mulled wine the vanilla we go and then
probably my favorite ingredient is um
sloe gin is anyone trauma surgeon before
oh yes oh so good what um have you made
it yourself or more fun yet yes I've
made it myself yeah I'm cool it's um
it's quite eat is it sort of easy to
make but you've got to obviously get the
SLOS first that's the whole yeah you do
I mean you just pick them from the hint
show that yes they don't cost anything
and then you just have to be patient
yeah how long did you so I've got some
dams and gin going at the moment I'm
still shaking it every day yeah I'm
nervous to try it I don't want to go too
early and be disappointed well I left
mine for a whole year oh really yeah I
didn't want it i didn't shake it all
that yeah okay for everyone but quite a
time and then I just let it sit the end
the following Christmas it's absolutely
fabulous oh really good sort of a bit of
sugar then Eugene yeah then you slice
yeah then you just fill it up fill your
buckle up with the journey and just turn
it gently well I've cheated I've got
bought but it is getting more
fashionable and they have got the other
if you I would you know
make it make a load give it where's
Christmas presents then make some of
this or you could give it as a christmas
present with this is a little recipe
attached kind of idea for your slow jinn
or something yeah that would be good
yeah ok so I'm going in with if you
don't if you drink 500ml of all the
others liquid probably only about 50 ml
of this journey to actually as it is
quite strong isn't it sort of yeah I
mean otherwise just have a nice butt oh
forget the cider forget the gym right
and then I'm just going to heat this up
so I've got a super heater but um just
want to heat it till it's like fairly
not simmering Jean a burner for the
alcohol so let's try that again
I mean this would be nice cold as well
if you wanted it over eyes but I kind of
I don't know it's Christmas isn't it was
snowing this morning so I think warm is
nice this time of year it's bubbling
there's not going to be fizzy still like
the cider won't be fizzy because you've
heated it up it still adds a nice flavor
and the vanilla is all coming out and
infusing give it a good stir while it
goes and that will help get the seeds
out the vanilla pods if you didn't want
to use vanilla pods then a glug of like
extract to be fine and give that sort of
flavor or you can buy the extract with
seeds in it now as well which is quite
good you have to be quite careful about
how much you you put in I suppose put a
bit in and then taste it then yeah
exactly they're quite varying strengths
some of them you know now I think with
the ones with the season as well you
kind of think all the teaspoons of TC
but actually it's a bit stronger so
you're here and you can't take it out
always like always you don't add a
little add a little keep tasting it is
it something that you have to serve
straight away old can you keep on the
heat you keep on eat right just keep it
really nice and low like if you've got a
slow cooker this would be so good in it
because it would never properly boil I
mean you know you can blitz not going to
ruin the taste it's just gonna mean that
there's no alcohol in it says 30 inch
inner basic exactly that's part the
warming but yeah this would happily sit
as long as you kept at a nice low
temperature or so you've got one of
those like old hot plate so I heat up
first put it on there cool people they
can serve themselves alright say
midnight mass maybe a flask of it are
you allowed to take mold alcoholic juice
she's very certain quite sure you do
welcome yeah be nice when you came back
then yes you could yeah and it get like
if you had a slow cooker put on before
you come out before you go out now or
later pump out perfect so I think this
is nice and hot now I can feel it it's
just going to sort of you can I don't if
you can see the steam on the camera but
it's just starting to steam I'm just
going to turn it off before it starts
bubbling
I mean like low and slow is a good way
to do this because the longer it's there
the more flavor that's going to come out
the cinnamon and the more seeds from the
vanilla so later that out now probably
going to make a mess because I've got
the biggest ladle in the world that's
what I might do is just to make it look
extra pretty I'm going to fish out or
have to up here cinnamon stick your nose
to its maybe buy some extra cinnamon
sticks if you want and then I'm just
going to UM shout my vanilla pods and
have them i'm going to add vanilla pod
to each one but acts as a stirrer and it
looks just nice and pretty doesn't it I
just love I love the color of this I
think mold one could be quite heavy so
this is kind of more fresh I think for
the winter look at that oh that looks
good yeah it's really for drivers what
you know you do different just take out
the sloe gin obviously and but instead
of the pear cider you could just use
like a fizzy pair drink or fizzy apple
drink you know you get one of the brands
is called Apple ties something like that
just use that instead still go with the
vanilla still out the cranberries and
things hmm
do you think you might try this instead
of mulled wine this year Oh looks like
it ya think so yeah what you got enough
pans do do a mold wine do this one see
which goes down the best is it quite
sure it looks as if it it's a sharper
drink than a mulled wine made with ya
reg why yeah i've added no extra sugar i
mean always have got natural juices in
there which sweeter but it knits it's
lighter maybe maybe less sharp but it's
just lighter and pear cider that i used
i used to drier one so it's not too
sweet it's kind of much more refreshing
and also mulled wine once it goes cold
kind of it's all right isn't it but this
if it went if this went cold it would
still be really tasty I think so it
looks as if it would be a refreshing as
a cold drink with lots of NC lots of ice
because it's got that already yeah it's
got that rosy color I think I associate
with summer sort of blush colored drinks
and let's chop up this one I feel sorry
for the person who gets the laden with
cranberries and none of the good stuff
well hopefully that might be a nice
alternative to old wine for you so this
is my gin my pear cranberry mold drink
for Christmas
you